# Analyzing the Effectiveness of a Logistic Regression Model to Predict NFL Player Success Based on Early Performances


**Abstract:**

The National Football League, the premier American football league, conducts a yearly draft, where the 32 franchises select players at least three years removed from high school that are hoping to succeed in the NFL. There are 256 players selected in the draft each year, and there is significant competition to be drafted and make a team's 53 man roster. The average NFL career ends before the completion of a drafted player’s four year rookie contract, often the result of sub-par performance or injuries. Fulfilling the rookie contract and getting a second contract is a major milestone in the NFL because it indicates a player’s skill through a team’s willingness to invest in them. Previous research attempts to predict player success through results of the NFL Scouting Combine, past performance, physique, and athleticism, but don’t predict success further than a few years into a player’s career. This paper aims to address the gap in player evaluation. Using a logistic regression model, this paper evaluates whether this machine learning technique accurately predicts an NFL player’s success, defined by whether they receive a second contract. Furthermore this paper isolates the metrics that best contribute to this milestone. Results indicate the logistic regression model is generally accurate while identifying statistics that attribute to players of all positions.
